# CR1350 Assignment #3


**Due:** July 26th before 11:59PM.\
**IMPORTANT:** The Dropbox will close at 12AM and no assignments will be accepted after that!

**Answer all questions on the document! DO NOT CREATE YOUR OWN! Marks will be lost!**

### Question 1: Data Width and Range
1.	Explain the relationship between the width of a location and the range of data that can be stored in a location.
    <details>
    <summary>answer</summary>The width of a memory location determines the range of data that can be stored in that location, or, the number of bits that can be stored in a single memory cell or register.
    </details>


### Question 2: Functions of Memory Types
2.	State the function of the following types of memory:

- Registers
    <details>
    <summary>answer</summary>
    Small, fast storage between the CPU that holds data and instructions that are currently being processed. Used for quick calculations for data.
    </details>

- Cache
    <details>
    <summary>Answer</summary>
    A small, high-speed memory location close to the CPU. It stores frequently accessed data to speed up retrieval and improve overall performance
    </details>

- Main Memory
    <details>
    <summary>Answer</summary>
    Also known as RAM, primary storage area for data the CPU needs while executing programs. Loses contents when power is turned off 
    </details>

- Secondary Storage
    <details>
    <summary>Answer</summary>
    Non volatile storage (SSDs, HDDs). Used to store datd and programs for the long term. Much larger capacity but slower
    </details>

- Off-line Storage
    <details>
    <summary>Answer</summary>
    Removable storage media for backup, archiving and transporting. Things like usb flash drives, cds dvds. Non volatile and can be stored separate of the computer
    </details>



### Question 3: Static RAM vs. Dynamic RAM

3.	Describe the similarities and differences between static RAM and dynamic RAM.
    <details>
    <summary>Answer</summary>
    <ul>
    <li>Both are volatile memory, meaning loss of data with loss of power</li>
    <li>Both are used for temporary memory</li>
    <li>Both allow random access to memory locations</li>
    <li>SRAM used flip flop circuits to store bits, DRAM uses 1 transistor</li>
    <li>DRAM requires refreshing to maintain data integrity, SRAM doesn’t</li>
    <li>SRAM is slightly faster because t doesn’t need to be refreshed</li>
    </ul>
    </details>

### Question 4: Magnetic Disk Organization

4.	Discuss the organization of a magnetic disk in terms of cylinders, tracks, and sectors.
    <details>
    <summary>Answer</summary>
    <ul>
    <li>Magnetic disks is separated into a series of cylinders, which include all tracks at a given radius on all platters</li>
     <li>A track is a circular path on the surface of a disk platter where data is recorded.</li>
      <li>A sector is a segment of track.</li>
    </ul>
    In short, a magnetic disk are organized into vertical stacks of tracks, which are the circles on a platter, which contain sectors which are segments of memory
    </details>
    

### Question 5: Disk Access Characteristics

5.	Define and discuss the factors that determine the access characteristics of a disk.
    <details>
    <summary>Answer</summary>
    <ul>
    <li>Data transfer rate: the time it takes to read/write to a data location</li>
    <li>Access Patterns: the manner in which data is read/written to the disk</li>
    <li>Cache size and efficiency: the amount of memory used to store frequently accessed data memory</li>
    <li>Queue depth: the number of IO operations the disk can handle at once</li>
    <li>Environmental factors: a cold disk is a slow disk, a boiling disk is a melted disk</li>
    </ul>
    </details>

### Question 6: RAID Levels

6.	Briefly discuss the operation and layout of RAID0, RAID1, and RAID5.
    <details>
    <summary>Answer</summary>
    Raid0
    <ul>
    <li>‘stripes’ data evenly across two or more disks without redundancy</li>
    <li>Each disk stores a portion of the data </li>
    </ul>
    Raid1
    <ul>
    <li>Duplicated the same data onto two more more disks. Each disk holds 1 exact copy of the data</li>
    <li>Each disk holds identical copies of the same data</li>
    </ul>
    Raid5
    <ul>
    <li>‘stripes’ data and parity information across three or more disks. Parity is used for error checking and recovery</li>
    <li>Data and parity is distributed across all disks which increases fault tolerance </li>
    </ul>
    </details>

### Question 7: Characteristics of SSDs

7.	Discuss the characteristics of Solid State Drives (SSD).
    <details>
    <summary>Answer</summary>
    <ul>
    <li>Uses flash memory to store data </li>
    <li>Low power consumption, fast, and reliable due to lack of mechanical parts</li>
    <li>Most expensive data storage format due to speed, reliability, and capacity</li>
    <li>Ssd’s have a finite number of write cycles</li>
    </ul>
    </details>

### Question 8: Optical Disk Technologies

8.	Briefly describe the characteristics of optical disk technologies.
    <details>
    <summary>Answer</summary>
    <ul>
    <li>Uses laser light to read/write data to a physical disk</li>
    <li>Most familiar use case are CDs/DVDs</li>
    <li>Resistant to environmental factors (however can be scratched)</li>
    <li>Lifespan ~10 years (supposedly up to 100)</li>
    </ul>
    </details>

### Question 9: Magnetic Tape Memory

9.	Discuss the characteristics and operation of magnetic tape memory.
    <details>
    <summary>Answer</summary>
    <ul>
    <li>Commonly used for data archive, exchange and system backup due to low cost</li>
    <li>Uses sequential access to data</li>
    <li>Long access times</li>
    <li>Lossless data compression</li>
    </ul>
    </details>

### Question 10: SAN and NAS
10.	Describe the characteristics and operation of a Storage Area Network (SAN) and Network Attached Storage (NAS).
    <details>
    <summary>Answer</summary>
    <ul>
    <li>A NAS is a single storage device that serves data over ethernet and is relatively inexpensive and commercially available</li>
    <li>A SAN is a tight network of multiple devices that is more expensive and typically used for larger businesses and requires much more IT administration than a NAS</li>
    </ul>
    </details>


